Add doc for azure disks encryption (#983)
giantswarm/docs: src/content/advanced/storage/azure-pvc-encryption/index.md

---
linkTitle: Persistent Volumes data encryption with Azure Key Vault
title: Encrypting Persistent Volumes using Azure Key Vault
description: Tutorial on how to encrypt dynamically provisioned Persistent Volumes on Azure clusters using Azure Key Vault feature.
weight: 40
menu:
  main:
    parent: advanced-storage
user_questions:
  - How do I encrypt data on Persistent Volumes?

>   - How do I secure data on Persistent Volumes?

Reviewer: Just in case someone searches for that feature specifically:
```suggestion
  - How do I secure data on Persistent Volumes?
  - How do I use Azure Key Vault?
```

aliases:
  - /guides/encrypting-persistent-volumes-on-azure-with-azure-key-vault/
owner:
  - https://github.com/orgs/giantswarm/teams/team-celestial
---

# Using Persistent Volumes on Azure

> If your cluster is running in Azure infrastructure, most common way to provision Persistent Volumes is by using the Azure Disks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your cluster is running in Azure infrastructure, the most common way to provision Persistent Volumes (PVs) is by using Azure Disks.
```

> On GS clusters default Storage Classes include already definitions for Azure Disks as well as Azure Files. Those disks however are not encrypted with Customer-Managed keys but only with Platform-Managed keys.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On GS clusters, default Storage Classes already include definitions for Azure Disks as well as Azure Files. Those disks, however, are not encrypted with Customer-Managed keys but only with Platform-Managed keys.
```

> On GS clusters default Storage Classes include already definitions for Azure Disks as well as Azure Files. Those disks however are not encrypted with Customer-Managed keys but only with Platform-Managed keys.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
On Giant Swarm Workload clusters, the default Storage Classes already include definitions for Azure Disks as well as Azure Files. Those disks however are not encrypted with Customer-Managed keys but only with Platform-Managed keys.
```

> In order to increase the security of your data persisting on PVs you can facilitate [Azure Key Vault](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/key-vault/) service as an encryption key provider.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In order to increase the security of your persistent data on PVs you can use the [Azure Key Vault](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/key-vault/) service as an encryption key provider.
```

## Azure Key Vault setup

> Prerequisite for next steps is to have a deployed Key Vault instance either in your clusters Resource Group or in your account. Please follow the [official docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/key-vault/general/overview) to get started.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A prerequisite for next steps is to have a deployed Key Vault instance either in your cluster's Resource Group, or in your account. Please follow the [official docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/key-vault/general/overview) to get started.
```

> Prerequisite for next steps is to have a deployed Key Vault instance either in your clusters Resource Group or in your account. Please follow the [official docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/key-vault/general/overview) to get started.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A prerequisite for following steps is to have a deployed Key Vault instance either in your clusters Resource Group or in your account. Please follow the [official docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/key-vault/general/overview) to get started.
```

## Create first encryption key

> After successful deployment we can move to creating encryption key that will be used to encrypt data on your PVs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After successful deployment we can move to creating an encryption key which will be used to encrypt data on your PVs.
```

> After successful deployment we can move to creating encryption key that will be used to encrypt data on your PVs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After successful deployment, we can move to creating the encryption key that will be used to encrypt data on your PVs.
```

> Add a new key with key type, RSA key size, activation or expiration date of your choosing in the Key Vault directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add a new key with a key type, RSA key size, and activation or expiration date of your choosing in the Key Vault directory.
```

> When creation is finished, the Key Identifier should look similar to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the creation is finished, the Key Identifier should look similar to:
```

> ```https://name-of-your-key-vault-instance.vault.azure.net/keys/test-vault-enc-key/xxxaaadddwww222111dddaaa23456789```

Reviewer: For an inline code block I think you should use single backticks. If you want to keep it as a code block, then the triple backticks should be on their own lines or the rendering can get confused

## Create Disk Encryption Set

> Next step is to create a Azure Disk Encryption Set with the key generated in previous step. You can use Azure CLI or navigate in the Portal by adding a new Disk Encryption Set resource.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The next step is to create an Azure Disk Encryption Set with the key generated in the previous step. You can use the Azure CLI or navigate in the Portal by adding a new Disk Encryption Set resource.
```

> Next step is to create a Azure Disk Encryption Set with the key generated in previous step. You can use Azure CLI or navigate in the Portal by adding a new Disk Encryption Set resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The next step is to create an Azure Disk Encryption Set with the key generated in previous step. You can use the Azure CLI or navigate in the Portal to add a new Disk Encryption Set resource.
```

> When creating the Set, you can specify encryption type which should use only Customer-Managed keys or provide a double encryption with additional Platform-Managed keys.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When creating the Set, you can specify an encryption type to use only Customer-Managed keys or provide a double encryption with additional Platform-Managed keys.
```

Regardless of your choice, please specify the key you have just created to be used in the Set.

Remember to add access permissions to the Key Vault instance you have created for the created Disk Encryption Set as it will need it to actually access and read the key after creation.

In the last step you will need the Resource ID of the created Disk Encryption Set looking like:

> ```/subscriptions/sub_id/resourceGroups/rg_where_key_vault_is/providers/Microsoft.Compute/diskEncryptionSets/name_of_your_disk_encryption_set```

Reviewer: Same here with the backticks

## Create Storage Class with Encryption

> Last step is to create your own Storage Class with the defined encryption set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The last step is to create your own Storage Class with the defined encryption set.
```

> After adjusting with your Encryption Set Resource ID, you will be able to apply following code:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After adjusting with your Encryption Set Resource ID, you will be able to apply following manifest:
```

> After adjusting with your Encryption Set Resource ID, you will be able to apply following code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After replacing the placeholder below with your Encryption Set Resource ID, you will be able to apply the following snippet:
```

```yaml
kind: StorageClass
apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1  
metadata:
  name: EncryptedDisks
provisioner: kubernetes.io/azure-disk
parameters:
  skuname: Standard_LRS
  kind: managed
  diskEncryptionSetID: "/subscriptions/sub_id/resourceGroups/rg_where_key_vault_is/providers/Microsoft.Compute/diskEncryptionSets/name_of_your_disk_encryption_set"
```

> From now on your Persistent Volumes using this storage class will have encrypted data with your Customer-Managed key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From now on, your Persistent Volumes using this storage class will have encrypted data with your Customer-Managed key.
```

> Final step is to add the Managed Identities (Service Principals) per Virtual Machine Scale Set that are created both for master and for all node pools in your cluster to also have access to the Key Vault instance in order to be able to read the encryption key.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The final step is to add the Managed Identities (Service Principals) to every Virtual Machine Scale Set which is created (both for master and for all node pools in your cluster). This is to enable them to have access to the Key Vault instance in order to be able to read the encryption key.
```

> Final step is to add the Managed Identities (Service Principals) per Virtual Machine Scale Set that are created both for master and for all node pools in your cluster to also have access to the Key Vault instance in order to be able to read the encryption key.

Reviewer: The previous step said it was the "last step" so maybe another transition is better for either this one or the above step
```suggestion
The final step is to add the Managed Identities (Service Principals) per Virtual Machine Scale Set that are created both for master and for all node pools in your cluster to also have access to the Key Vault instance in order to be able to read the encryption key.
```

---

> linkTitle: Persistent Volumes data encryption with Azure Key Vault

Reviewer 3: `linkTitle` is the one displayed in the menu. It's a bit too long.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/273727/122889680-49d69000-d343-11eb-88d4-e7714ffeb8d1.png)

I suggest something like `Azure volume encryption` here.

title: Encrypting Persistent Volumes using Azure Key Vault
description: Tutorial on how to encrypt dynamically provisioned Persistent Volumes on Azure clusters using Azure Key Vault feature.
weight: 40
menu:
  main:
    parent: advanced-storage
user_questions:
  - How do I encrypt data on Persistent Volumes?
  - How do I secure data on Persistent Volumes?
  - How do I use Azure Key Vault?
aliases:
  - /guides/encrypting-persistent-volumes-on-azure-with-azure-key-vault/
owner:
  - https://github.com/orgs/giantswarm/teams/team-celestial
---

> # Using Persistent Volumes on Azure

Reviewer 3: The first headline should be semantically the same as the title. The title sounds much more specific than this headline.

Author: opened up new PR: https://github.com/giantswarm/docs/pull/984
